\section{The Assimilation Question}

\textit{23 April 2014}

Minority groups generally live under the rule of a state run by a central
majority group; because of this, they face the decision to either maintain their
separation in order to preserve their cultural distinctions, or assimilate into
the dominant culture in order to access status and privileges that would
otherwise be difficult to obtain. As an examination of these issues, we can
follow the trajectories of three well-documented minorities: the Hui, the
Amish, and the Manchu. These three groups share the traits of
self-identification as a unique group with a common history, show visible
cultural markers, and are
recognized by their respective ruling states as distinct community with shared
values and interests.

In modern times, all three live in close proximity to the
majority center, inhabiting areas that, if not explicitly mixed with the
majority, are at least not separated by significant geographic features. All
three also engage economically and politically with the ruling state, with
representation in occupations that allow them to trade and interact with
outsiders, as well as participating in government and bureaucratic concerns.
This has provided them ample opportunity to assimilate, yet they still exist as
separate groups.

Dru Gladney refers to the Hui as a nationality created during the census
projects of the late 1900s, combining the historical knowledge of foreign
Muslims who traveled to China as merchants during the Tang dynasty with the
establishing of a nationality-based hierarchy during the Yuan dynasty by the Mongols
\footnote{Gladney, 17--18}. The modern notion of the Hui shows both a sense of
this foreign origin and adherence to traditional Islamic living practices; while some
communities align more with their Arabic ancestors and others are more devout
in their religious practice, the ethnonym of \textit{Hui} nonetheless calls on
an identity that the Hui are capable of identifying with. In short, even though
explicit definition of the Hui minority group in terms of common traits and
cultulral markers proves problematic, no one doubts that the group exists.

A curious feature of the Hui, in contrast with most other ethnic minorities in
China, is that their population is noticeably dispersed across the country,
occupying more areas and forming a larger percentage of the minority population
in those areas than other groups \footnote{Gladney, 27--28}. In addition to
their geographical distribution, the Hui do not have their own language or
dialect, and instead adopt the linguistic traits of their neighbors. Gladney
mentions a specific group of Hui he interviewed who were ``culturally
indistinguishable from the minority group with whom they live, but they
identify themselves as Hui and are recognized by the state as members of the
Hui nationality'' \footnote{Gladney, 33}. While some Hui wear head coverings
that indicate their religious beliefs, many Hui do not, and instead dress as
their neighbors do. The Hui, then, somehow manage to maintain their status as a
distinct group, regardless of circumstances that
make it difficult for an outsider to determine what makes them different.

One of the main things that sets the Hui apart from non-Hui is their notion of
\textit{qingzhen}, an ethnoreligious concept of purity and truth that is
difficult to identify outside of daily practical living. In some areas,
\textit{qingzhen} manifests as an abstention from pork products, attending
Islamic prayer services, recognizing ancestral lineage from historically
documented Muslims, and maintaining traditional Islamic dress. Not all of the
Hui adhere to all of these characteristics, but recognizing \textit{qingzhen}
, regardless of its actual practice, is a cultural marker of the Hui that both
gives the group a self-identification and allows outsiders to see what makes the Hui different in terms of
 the social ideals of the group. Additionally, by giving themselves this
ideological definition, the Hui make it easy for then to refer to things that
are not Hui---namely, things that are not \textit{qingzhen} could not be Hui.
Adhering to \textit{qingzhen} gives the Hui a tangible practice to preserve,
which they maintain through their marriage habits, living spaces, and dietary
practices.

Similar to the Hui in this regard, the Amish live according to an
\textit{Ordnung} that defines acceptable living practices that maintain a
limited amount of contact with things that are worldly and sinful
\footnote{Hostetler, 82--83}. They maintain a lifestyle that separates them,
ideologically and physically, from that which is not what they are, and thus
hold a very clear boundary between themselves and the other. In practical
terms, this can be seen in an avoidance of electricity and other modern
conveniences, a moderation of behavior and emotion, plain dress and hair as
regulated by one's church, and a commitment to maintaining the community
\footnote{Hostetler, 84}. The Amish are easily identified in modern American
society by observing those cultural markers.

Although the Amish strive to hold themselves apart from things they consider
worldly, they accept that it is both impractical and unnecessary to live in a
completely isolated state. Different levels of interaction apply for different
levels of worldliness; for example, ``interaction with other Amish, with
Mennonite and related groups, or with other religious groups is different from
interaction with the world'' \footnote{Hostetler, 111}. As a necessary part of
their survival, they partake in trade with the outside world for groceries such
as sugar, salt, and flour, and sell their excess production of grain and hay on
the market \footnote{Hostetler, 113}. Additionally, as they do not own
automotive forms of transportation, they rely on trains and buses for travel
over distances that they cannot practically cover with their buggies. Specific
limitations vary between invididual churches and communities, but in general,
their \textit{Ordnung} dictates acceptable interactions as is needed for their
survival. As a result, they inevitably come in contact with the outside world in social and
economic contexts.

From those interactions, as well as existing within a larger state as a small
minority group, the Amish have encountered problems of maintaining their
\textit{Ordnung}. Hostetler describes them as ``suspended between competing
value systems, subjected to enticements from the external world...confronted
with special problems of coping with regulations and bureaucracies''
\footnote{Hostetler, 255}. It becomes impossible for the Amish to ignore the
social and technological changes of the world beyond their community, which
induces them to examine their own lifestyles; since they cannot possibly
sustain their separation from worldliness while still holding on to their Amish
identity, they have no way to assimilate without ultimately losing their value
system.

In addition to the temptations of modern living, the Amish have to contend with
a legal system that is not always well-suited to their beliefs. Regulations
from the American government most significantly affect their educational
practices; the Amish generally do not
school their children beyond eighth grade, as after that age, children are
expected to remain with their families and develop good relationships with work
and familial responsibilities \footnote{Hostetler, 188}. Pennsylvania law, on the other
hand, required school up to age seventeen, with an exception for children from
farming families that lowered the age to fifteen; frequently, Amish were barred
from this exception until the formation of an Amish vocational school that
allowed a compromise \footnote{Hostetler, 262--263}.

Despite the problems the Amish face by maintaining their separate way
of living as minorities, the overall Amish community continues to flourish with
an increasing population growth owed to a high birth rate and low attrition.
The ideals of
their community give them a distinct living space that is incompatible with
outsiders, and they preserve this community by holding a high amount of value
to the very existence of their community. Amish do not marry out to non-Amish
\footnote{Hostetler, 145}, provide their own education to their children, and
refrain from using technology or services that are antithetical to their belief
system.

At a glance through the history of the Manchus, there exist similar features in
their status as a minority group. The Manchus maintained an explicitly
segregated living space, as well as a roster of all members of their group
within the established banner system; like the Hui and the Amish, the Manchus
knew who was part of them and who was the other. However, their existence as a
group depended mostly on their assertion of their group, without any larger
ideological beliefs supporting their segretation; they used the Manchu name as
``a highly poliicized ethnic label'' that referred to the notion of the Manchu,
rather than identifying distinct lineages or cultural markers \footnote{Elliott,
353}. The existence of the Manchu label implied almost exclusively social distinctions, such as their status as a ruling class and membership within the banner system.

It can then be argued that the Manchu identity was far more of a political
contruct than that of the Hui and the Amish, and for that reason, the modern
view of the Manchu makes them harder to distinguish as a noticeable minority
group outside of that official designation. The main aspect of the identity
that set them apart was the banner system itself, which carried the Manchu
intoo the Qing dynasty while the militaristic and linguistic aspects of their
lifestyle faded \footnote{Elliott, 354}. The downside to holding the
institution itself as central to a one's group identity, though, is that once
the institution was removed from the collape of the banner system, the main
aspect of Manchuness went with it. Following the Qing dynasty, the Manchus had
difficulty maintaining a strong sense of identity, once they became too far
removed from the shared history of the banner institution \footnote{Rigger,
211}.

In summary, the Manchus were less successful at maintaining their status as a
separate minority group when compared with the  Hui and the Amish. The
religious purity and dedication to an ideal that transcended a material
existence gave the Amish and the Hui a greater sense of importance to their
separateness; it wasn't just that they needed to preserve their community
values, but that they \textit{had} values to preserve at all that set them
apart from the Manchus. The Hui encountered social friction for maintaining
their pork abstention amidst a society favored pork products as a primary
protein source, and the Amish face constant temptation to modern conveniences
and political pressure to conform, but both groups place their committment to
their identity at a higher value than accepting assimilation.  For the Manchu, their acculturation seems to lead to an inevitable assimilation; within the Chinese ethnic minority designation, they still exist as a valid ethnic group, but as the distance from the period of the banner system grows, those distinctions become more of a formality than a recognition of identifiable cultural differences.
